Add an initial Hacktoberfest page (#56)
gradle/community: docs/events/hacktoberfest/2024/README.md

---
title: "Gradle in Hacktoberfest 2024"
description: >
  Gradle participates in Hacktoberfest 2024!
  Join us and contribute to the select projects,
  and get custom swag!
---

[![Slack: hacktobest on the Gradle Community Slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/Slack-%23hacktoberfest-brightgreen?style=flat&logo=slack)](../../../contributing/community-slack.md)

> [Hacktoberfest](https://hacktoberfest.com/) is a month-long celebration of open-source projects, their maintainers, and the entire community of contributors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Hacktoberfest](https://hacktoberfest.com/) is a month-long celebration of open-source projects, their maintainers and contributors.
```

> Many component maintainers from the Gradle ecosystem, e.g. the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many component maintainers from the Gradle ecosystem, such as the
```

[Gradle plugin for Jenkins](https://plugins.jenkins.io/gradle),
already include their projects in Hacktoberfest.

> In October, Gradle will participate in Hacktoberfest 2024!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This year, Gradle is participating in Hacktoberfest!
```

> This year, we are looking forward to offering a few featured projects, hosting online events for newcomer open-source contributors,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are looking forward to featuring projects, hosting online events for new open-source contributors,
```

and sending custom Gradle goodies for those who contribute to the projects.

## Featured Projects

> Here are a few projects we have in mind  for the event:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are a few projects we have in mind for the event:
```

> * Making the Gradle plugins compatible with Gradle Configuration Cache ([list of plugin statuses on GitHub](https://github.com/gradle/gradle/issues/13490))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Making Gradle plugins compatible with Gradle Configuration Cache ([list of plugin statuses on GitHub](https://github.com/gradle/gradle/issues/13490))
```

* Experimenting with Declarative Gradle and sharing feedback

> * Contributing new Gradle solutions to [Gradle Cookbook](https://community.gradle.org/cookbook/), and plugin documentation improvements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Contributing new Gradle solutions to the [Gradle Cookbook](https://community.gradle.org/cookbook/)
```

Reviewer: "plugin documentation improvements" isn't very specific.

* Learning Gradle Build Tool with free courses on [DPE University](https://dpeuniversity.gradle.com/app/catalog)

> More featured projects will be added soon,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More featured projects will be added soon.
```

> maintainers are welcome to add their components if there are contributor guidelines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Maintainers are welcome to add their project if they provide contributor guidelines
```

> and some issues that can be taken by contributors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and issues that can be hacked on by contributors.
```

## Swag

> In addition to common Hacktoberfest swag,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to our Hacktoberfest swag,
```

we plan to send something nice to those who make substantial contributions to
Gradle Build Tool and its ecosystem.

!!! info

    The details will be announced soon.

## Events

!!! info

    Coming soon.
    We will at least have an opening event,

>     and also a few presentations and office hours for newcomer contributors to open source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    and also a few presentations and office hours for new contributors to open source.
```

> ## Be Informed

Reviewer: ``` suggestion
## Stay Informed
```

Join the `#hacktoberfest` channel on the [Gradle Communbity Slack](../../../contributing/community-slack.md)

> where we will be posting the key updates and answering any questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where we will be posting key updates and answering questions.
```

> Also, subscribe to the [newsletter](https://newsletter.gradle.org/) for updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subscribe to the [newsletter](https://newsletter.gradle.org/) for updates
```

> about the upcoming community events and mentorship programs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
about upcoming community events and mentorship programs.
```
